README.md, before:

# TechConf Registration Website

## Project Overview
The TechConf website allows attendees to register for an upcoming conference. Administrators can also view the list of attendees and notify all attendees via a personalized email message.

The application is currently working but the following pain points have triggered the need for migration to Azure:
 - The web application is not scalable to handle user load at peak
 - When the admin sends out notifications, it's currently taking a long time because it's looping through all attendees, resulting in some HTTP timeout exceptions
 - The current architecture is not cost-effective 

In this project, you are tasked to do the following:
- Migrate and deploy the pre-existing web app to an Azure App Service
- Migrate a PostgreSQL database backup to an Azure Postgres database instance
- Refactor the notification logic to an Azure Function via a service bus queue message

## Dependencies

You will need to install the following locally:
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- [Azure Function tools V3](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-run-local?tabs=windows%2Ccsharp%2Cbash#install-the-azure-functions-core-tools)
- [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)
- [Azure Tools for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-node-azure-pack)

## Project Instructions

### Part 1: Create Azure Resources and Deploy Web App
1. Create a Resource group
2. Create an Azure Postgres Database single server
   - Add a new database `techconfdb`
   - Allow all IPs to connect to database server
   - Restore the database with the backup located in the data folder
3. Create a Service Bus resource with a `notificationqueue` that will be used to communicate between the web and the function
   - Open the web folder and update the following in the `config.py` file
      - `POSTGRES_URL`
      - `POSTGRES_USER`
      - `POSTGRES_PW`
      - `POSTGRES_DB`
      - `SERVICE_BUS_CONNECTION_STRING`
4. Create App Service plan
5. Create a storage account
6. Deploy the web app

### Part 2: Create and Publish Azure Function
1. Create an Azure Function in the `function` folder that is triggered by the service bus queue created in Part 1.

      **Note**: Skeleton code has been provided in the **README** file located in the `function` folder. You will need to copy/paste this code into the `__init.py__` file in the `function` folder.
      - The Azure Function should do the following:
         - Process the message which is the `notification_id`
         - Query the database using `psycopg2` library for the given notification to retrieve the subject and message
         - Query the database to retrieve a list of attendees (**email** and **first name**)
         - Loop through each attendee and send a personalized subject message
         - After the notification, update the notification status with the total number of attendees notified
2. Publish the Azure Function

### Part 3: Refactor `routes.py`
1. Refactor the post logic in `web/app/routes.py -> notification()` using servicebus `queue_client`:
   - The notification method on POST should save the notification object and queue the notification id for the function to pick it up
2. Re-deploy the web app to publish changes

## Monthly Cost Analysis
Complete a month cost analysis of each Azure resource to give an estimate total cost using the table below:

| Azure Resource | Service Tier | Monthly Cost |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| *Azure Postgres Database* | Basic    |  21.30            |
| *Azure Service Bus*   |   Basic      |  0.05            |
| *Azure Service Plan*    |     F1    |       Free       |
| *Azure Storage Account*    |     Standard StorageV2 (general purpose v2)    |       0.021 per GB       |
| *Sendgrid*    |     Free plan    |       Free       |
| *App service plan for Azure function*    |     F1    |       Free       |


## Architecture Explanation
Web app is a good choice for provided python code because of low cost and maintainability. If not for the requirement of this project then I would look into other options for database because current monthly cost is too expensive in my view. Function app serves the specific purpose and it is also cost effective because of the consumtion based plan. Service bus queue is not needed for 5 attendees but considering the future use case it definitely adds to the robustness of webapp by moving long running task of sending emails as a background job.

Commit message:

update resources cost to suit prod environment

README.md, after:

# TechConf Registration Website

## Project Overview
The TechConf website allows attendees to register for an upcoming conference. Administrators can also view the list of attendees and notify all attendees via a personalized email message.

The application is currently working but the following pain points have triggered the need for migration to Azure:
 - The web application is not scalable to handle user load at peak
 - When the admin sends out notifications, it's currently taking a long time because it's looping through all attendees, resulting in some HTTP timeout exceptions
 - The current architecture is not cost-effective 

In this project, you are tasked to do the following:
- Migrate and deploy the pre-existing web app to an Azure App Service
- Migrate a PostgreSQL database backup to an Azure Postgres database instance
- Refactor the notification logic to an Azure Function via a service bus queue message

## Dependencies

You will need to install the following locally:
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
- [Azure Function tools V3](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-run-local?tabs=windows%2Ccsharp%2Cbash#install-the-azure-functions-core-tools)
- [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest)
- [Azure Tools for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.vscode-node-azure-pack)

## Project Instructions

### Part 1: Create Azure Resources and Deploy Web App
1. Create a Resource group
2. Create an Azure Postgres Database single server
   - Add a new database `techconfdb`
   - Allow all IPs to connect to database server
   - Restore the database with the backup located in the data folder
3. Create a Service Bus resource with a `notificationqueue` that will be used to communicate between the web and the function
   - Open the web folder and update the following in the `config.py` file
      - `POSTGRES_URL`
      - `POSTGRES_USER`
      - `POSTGRES_PW`
      - `POSTGRES_DB`
      - `SERVICE_BUS_CONNECTION_STRING`
4. Create App Service plan
5. Create a storage account
6. Deploy the web app

### Part 2: Create and Publish Azure Function
1. Create an Azure Function in the `function` folder that is triggered by the service bus queue created in Part 1.

      **Note**: Skeleton code has been provided in the **README** file located in the `function` folder. You will need to copy/paste this code into the `__init.py__` file in the `function` folder.
      - The Azure Function should do the following:
         - Process the message which is the `notification_id`
         - Query the database using `psycopg2` library for the given notification to retrieve the subject and message
         - Query the database to retrieve a list of attendees (**email** and **first name**)
         - Loop through each attendee and send a personalized subject message
         - After the notification, update the notification status with the total number of attendees notified
2. Publish the Azure Function

### Part 3: Refactor `routes.py`
1. Refactor the post logic in `web/app/routes.py -> notification()` using servicebus `queue_client`:
   - The notification method on POST should save the notification object and queue the notification id for the function to pick it up
2. Re-deploy the web app to publish changes

## Monthly Cost Analysis
Complete a month cost analysis of each Azure resource to give an estimate total cost using the table below:

| Azure Resource | Service Tier | Monthly Cost |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------------ |
| *Azure Postgres Database* | Basic    |  21.30            |
| *Azure Service Bus*   |   Basic      |  0.05            |
| *Azure Service Plan*    |     Basic    |       12.41       |
| *Azure Storage Account*    |     Standard StorageV2 (general purpose v2)    |       1.25       |
| *Sendgrid*    |     Essentials 40K   |       14.95       |
| *App service plan for Azure function*    |     F1    |       Free       |

For Azure function The first 400,000 GB/s of execution and 1,000,000 executions are free which is more than enough for our application in production environment.
## Architecture Explanation
Web app is a good choice for provided python code because of low cost and maintainability. If not for the requirement of this project then I would look into other options for database because current monthly cost is too expensive in my view. Function app serves the specific purpose and it is also cost effective because of the consumtion based plan. Service bus queue is not needed for 5 attendees but considering the future use case it definitely adds to the robustness of webapp by moving long running task of sending emails as a background job.
